How's it going everyone I'm Scott Moss and
welcome to building a full stack app
from scratch featuring Next.js v2.
This is the second version
of this course and
the previous version we walked
through how to use Next.js to
build a full stack app from scratch and
the subject of that app was Spotify.
It was like a Spotify clone kind of
walk through and build a music player.
It definitely wasn't feature complete, but
I think we covered enough to kind of give
you the gist of how to build something in
Next.js using all the tools
that it provides for you.
Now, we're back doing the same thing, but,
because Next.js was updated to version 13,
which uses React version 18,
there's honestly like a ton of
breaking changes, new features,
all types of exciting things that we
can take advantage of that I think,
deserves its own course on how to build
something fullstack so here we are and
we're gonna do that again so
I'm very excited to walk through that.
This course is for
anyone who has the desire or
the want to build things in Next.js
obviously cuz it's Next.js,
React, or
any type of full stack application.
So if you have any experience using React
or JavaScript or even things on the back
end, you can do more stuff on
the front end, this is for you.
We did, or
we do have an intro to Next.js v2,
which covers all the main topics that
we'll be actually using in this course.
So some of the new features like
client components, server components,
The intro course goes in depth with that.
So we will stop and
talk about those things.
But for more detailed explanation,
check out that course if you want to do
a deep dive but no worries if you haven't.
I'll guide you along the way.
And we're going to build something cool.
So let's do it.
So if you want you can follow along here.
You're on the website full stack v2
instructions dot Purcell dot app.
You don't have to, well, actually, for
this one, I do have a lot of code in here
that you're going to be able to copy and
paste to keep up.
But for the most part,
it's mostly just for me to stay on track.
Otherwise, I'll end up building
a completely different app than what I
intended on building.
Thanks.
So let me actually show you
what we're gonna be building so
you have some context.
So in the last v1 course, we did build
a Spotify clone, which was pretty cool,
I think definitely rip the design
straight from Spotify.
This one I definitely struggled a lot
trying to figure out what to build because
there's some really cool apps out there.
Some of the candidates were like.
Twitter, because Twitter's,
like, crazy right now.
So it's like,
let's just have everyone rebuilt Twitter.
But it it got really complicated to really
find the things that I wanted to get
across and the things that I wanted to
teach and also build something meaningful.
So that got scrapped.
And eventually I landed on creating
this personal project management app.
Because something I struggle with as
a professional adult is just staying
productive and organized and
all the tasks that I need to do.
And I've probably tried 20 of
those apps over the last year and
none of them ever helped me.
Me so the engineering me is like,
I'll just make my own and
then I'll be more organized.
So I decided to extend that creativity
to this course where we're gonna to make
our own project, task management app so
we can stay organized as busy adults.
So this is what it looks like.
Here is the sign and page and
you can sign in here so
once you sign in you have like your
projects, you have your tasks,
things like that, and
you'll be able to click on the projects.
Go to tasks, create new tasks, things like
that and just going to be focusing on
using the latest Next.js so things like
server components, client components where
we can like load things in
individually and stuff like that.
So it's gonna be fun and
it's not gonna be an app that's gonna
be a hundred percent feature complete,
that would take more than the time
that this course is allotted for so
I like to leave room at the end for you to
extend that to do whatever you want for
you can think of this app is going
to be like a reference app for
you to look back on and
be like I remember how I did that or
a playground where you can add new
features and look at what you did on
previous routes to Try to compare so
that's what we're gonna be making today.
And I designed it myself,
not that it matters, but I designed that.